This is the help file for the ortho-rectification applications.

There are 2 ortho-rectification applications in the OTB-Applications
package. The first one is a command line program which is called
otbOrthorectification. If you launch it without parameters you will get the
following help message:


 Usage : otbOrthorectification
      [--help|-h]                     :  Help
      [--version|-v]                  :  Version
       --InputImage|-in               :  input image file name   (1 parameter)
       --OutputImage|-out             :  output image file name   (1 parameter)
       --xUpperLeft|-xUL              :  Cartographic x coordinate of upper left corner  (1 parameter)
       --yUpperLeft|-yUL              :  Cartographic y coordinate of upper left corner  (1 parameter)
       --OutputXSize|-xSize           :  Size of result image  (1 parameter)
       --OutputYSize|-ySize           :  Size of result image  (1 parameter)
       --OutputXSpacing|-xSpacing     :  Spacing resolution in meter on x Axis (1 parameter)
       --OutputYSpacing|-ySpacing     :  Spacing resolution in meter on y Axis (1 parameter)
      [--NumStreamDivisions|-stream]  :  Number of streaming divisions (optional)  (1 parameter)
       --MapProjectionType|-mapProj   :  Type (UTM/LAMBERT/LAMBERT2/SINUS/ECKERT4/TRANSMERCATOR/MOLLWEID) and parameters of map projection used  (N parameters)


As you can see, this application is able to ortho-rectify a portion of
a input image. You define the portion by giving the coordinates upper
left corner, the size in pixels and the spacing (ground sampling
distance). These coordinates are given in the cartographic projection
selected.

The second application has a graphical user interface (GUI) and is
called otbOrthorectificationAppli. Yes, we know, the names are not fancy, but
the applications are!

When you launch the application you will get a beautiful GUI. The
first thing to do is use the "Open image" button to select the input
image you want to ortho-rectify. A quick-look of your image will be
created and the image name will appear in the list on the upper left
part of the GUI. You can view the image if you want to.

The lower right part of the GUI contains a set of tabs where
interesting information is displayed and can be modified. The
"Coordinates" tab is initialized using image meta-data. The default
cartographic projection is UTM. Since we may 
want to ortho-rectify only a region of the input image, a reference
coordinate has to be given. This can be either the central pixel of
the region or the upper left one. The coordinates can be given either
in geographic projection (longitude, latitude) or in the output
cartographic projection. If you change one of them, the other changes
to be coherent. In the "Output Image" tab you can choose the size of
the output image in pixels and the spacing (ground sampling
distance). You can also choose among several  different
interpolators. The "Image Extent" tab gives you an overview of the
resulting selected area. The "DEM" tab allows you to use a SRTM digital
elevation model. The "DEM Path" button is used to select the directory
where the SRTM files are stored. If you do not have a DEM you can
select an average elevation for the area. Finally, the "Advanced" tab
allows you to select the output coding for your image: 8 bits or 16
bits. It is better to use 16 bits for quality purposes. You can also
set the size in MBytes of the tiles for the streaming mechanism. The
default value should be OK for most recent computers.

Once you have selected all your settings, you can click on the OK
button. A file browser will appear so you can choose the name of the
output image. After that, the ortho-rectification process is
launched. Once it is finished, the resulting output image will appear
in the image list, so you can check the results. Since it is an
ortho-rectified image, the viewer will also display the physical
coordinates of the pixels in the selected projection.
